what if I told you that you might not be
able to retire ever you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
many people have stated that at 65 they
want to retire they're going to have X
number of dollars it's going to last
them well beyond their lifetime and they
could pass on the rest to their children
but for so many people they are starting
to realize that is not the case at all
I'm going to show you the data which
supports this and then I'm going to show
you how many people are retiring anyway
Something Fishy is going on let's get
into it right here and now just over
half of Americans over the age of 65 are
earning under $30,000 a year and it
shows how Stark the retirement crisis is
so for many people they have said I
don't ever want to retire I want to keep
working and I think that's fantastic I
think you should always want to work
stay active mentally it's better as well
but for so many people what they find is
they actually have a problem by the time
they get to these you know time frame
where they have a person to take care of
they cannot absolutely cannot work
because of their own health because of a
family member's health and the financial
circumstances change rapidly like this
do you know someone maybe it's yourself
maybe it's a family member or someone
that you know in general that have dealt
with these circumstances I'm sure you
probably do because I know myself so
many where the spouse they were able to
work physically but now they had to be
the caretaker this is a very unfortunate
circumstance of course uh and many
people think no that's not going to
happen but unfortunately it does a lot
and that is a um you know the financial
side of it we'll stay with the financial
side of it uh this becomes a big
burden sharp uptick in early retirements
the number of estimated excess retirees
surged in late
2023 and this really started you could
see this excess retirees it's up it's
down all these things since the
financial crisis um you know all of that
but as soon as like 2020 came around
people just started to retire and you
have to start putting the puzzle pieces
together
some would say this is because they
couldn't do it anymore others said hey I
was able to make a lot of money in 2020
and there it was suddenly I could retire
what do you think it is here is it a
mixed
bag excess retirees you can see the
actual retirements versus the predicted
so it went way above the trend line many
more people were retiring than were
expecting
to a generation ago one popular song
implored workers to tell their bosses to
take their job and shove it judging from
how many Americans are choosing
retirement millions are taking that
advice the great retirement boom can you
believe this it goes against a lot of
the data that we have seen right people
are struggling we got two jobs three
jobs four jobs there are also people
that are simply using the equity in
their homes in order
to basically find themselves in an early
retirement hey I got all this cash here
I got Savings in a sense so I am going
to be able to
retire that's a big thing but what about
the stock market as well you see that
boost that was had in 2020 what was that
big thing that occurred yes the stock
market went up but more importantly real
estate went up and real estate went up a
lot you see because the stock market it
did go up it came down it went up it
depends on the stocks you were in then
in 2022 they went down but one thing
which has done persistently well for the
most part has been real estate and so
that could be the ATM the retirees have
been looking for ah could be the case
right what about this stocks are popular
inflation Hedge for future retirees we
asked how are you protecting your
retirement savings from inflation 46% of
them said I'm adding more stocks I'm
adding more stocks only 6% said I'm
adding more gold you see the difference
there they're saying stocks are going to
be the inflation Hedge for me that's
what people are doing with their
retirement
savings what do you think of that is
that prudent
advice the income needed to comfortably
afford a home in the US has leap
80% since 2020 far exceeding a 23%
increase in median income over the same
period now you got a problem here you've
got a problem here when now you want to
get into the market it's higher so this
supports us we already knew this anyway
the fact that these people who probably
bought their homes if they're retiring
now they bought their homes for you know
their original home and they probably
traded up traded up 30,000 maybe the
home that they bought let's say 20 years
ago was a couple hundred thousand and
now it's potentially worth a million two
million depending on what city you live
in so of course they can use that like
an ATM and retire now that would change
in in a heartbeat if there was some sort
of catalyst to bring down the financial
system and take residential real estate
with it we don't have that yet although
the banks are dealing with some problems
that's more on the commercial real
estate side and so they feel very
confident so they're walking out the
door they're saying
boss I'm going to take the money and run
major US metros where household income
must be
$150,000 plus six of the areas with the
highest income needed are in Califor
California not a not surprising
really and so you look at this and
understand that okay if they're living
there then they still need to keep their
incomes high but if they can move to a
much more affordable
location then they could retire on that
cash they could simply sell the property
rent it out who knows do a reverse
mortgage maybe maybe do a Cash out
refinance there are many options and so
there are any number of things things
that we could assume here housing
affordability index we know that it's
way down I mean it it's ridiculous in
fact because the prices are super high
but interest rates mortgage rates are
also excessively high and you put two
and two together and you get a bad combo
when it comes to affordability but if
you're already in and you bought your
home in 1972 for you know
$26,000 oh you're good yeah you're
you're doing real good right now
you can thank the Federal Reserve for
that inflation now that's what we have
for retirees what can you do well if you
are looking at this right now or maybe
it's in the Horizon you've got to do a
few things number one you've got to plan
for a rainy day you got to make this
assumption that in between today and the
time when you finally go to greener
pastures that there's going to be a
crisis
there's going to be something that's
going to happen right we know that and
so are you prepared for that that's what
most people don't they basically just
say Okay 7% a year I'll calculate 7% a
year or 10% a year okay all right good
so if I just extract this much per year
it's going to go down just a little bit
okay over time but hey 7 to 10% a year
I'm good you have to assume at some
point whether it's next year whether
it's in 10 years or 15 years or whatever
it is at some point there's going to be
a major deflation that destroys values
for a period of time what comes back up
on that other side we don't know we
really don't know so just keep that in
mind and always head your bets I say
that all the time and of course
diversify your Holdings especially when
you're looking at wealth preservation if
that's what you're trying to do then
having some diversity I'm not saying go
wild on it but having some diversity
among your Investments is going to help
over a very long period of time Ray Dalo
calls this the all-weather
portfolio you can also look at it being
risk parity But ultimately over many
many decades this is the winning
strategy okay and that's how we can
sleep better at night this is the thing
that most people should do at least
think about that with a portion of of
your assets I hope this was beneficial
to you if you want to know the
strategies for how to look at this in
depth well then you got to join my
finance Friday crewp this is the
ultimate thing uh I help people every
single Friday for two hours if you're
interested in some details Link in the
description below hit that Thumbs Up And
as always I'll see you back here
tomorrow take care